For inspirasjon, sjekk "hackeriets projekter":http://pad.microdisko.no/p/hackeriets\-projekter----
63¤h1.  Lord Nikon the Bulletin Board System

Nikon is our BBS and shell service for members, we call it `nikon.hackeriet.no`. It's a a comms platform and learning place and a fun diversion as a piece of culture. 

<pre>
We have a stable link.
We have games. 
We have bulletins.
We have a multi\-user dungeon.
We have a web service for you.hackeriet.no
We have internal mail and ultra\-secure talk(1)
We have asciipr0n.
</pre>

It's all in the menu. 

You don't have to know how. Don't worry, you will learn. You can put your internet relay chat in a screen(1) on the box, and stay always online! You can share files with fellow hackers. You can set up bots and install software. And the best thing: you can interact with the other users.

For some of us our first interactions with UNIX was through an account on a large login server, it was unusually strange because we came from a gooey background but it grew on us quickly, the amazing benefits becoming gradually apparent.

Many things are simply not possible through a graphical interface... especially [CSI stuff](http://kacper.blog.redpill\-linpro.com/archives/7).

krav and comotion amongst others have been working hard to bring this collaborative platform to Hackeriet.

h2. Gaining access

People with accounts have the power to add new users to the system. You should be on this mailinglist and or IRC #oslohackerspace @freenode and find someone with an existing account to get your own.

h2. How to connect?
 You need to open a terminal and type 

<pre> 
ssh nickname@nikon.hackeriet.no
</pre>

If you are unfortunate enough to be running a terminal\-less system, you probably need [KiTTY](http://kitty.9bis.com/).

Because, you know,
[In the Beginning was the Command Line](http://artlung.com/smorgasborg/C_R_Y_P_T_O_N_O_M_I_C_O_N.shtml)
