it's a wiki. write stuff and it shows up :\-D----
2¤h1. Mathematical!

<pre>
 14:07:11         @fnords | tty32: fortune
 14:07:11          +tty32 | Anyone who cannot cope with mathematics is not fully human.  At best he
 14:07:12          +tty32 | is a tolerable subhuman who has learned to wear shoes, bathe and not
 14:07:12          +tty32 | make messes in the house.
 14:07:24         @fnords | yes :/
 14:07:38           @ln2v | math <3
 14:07:52         @fnords | i might need a maths tutor if i am to become fully human someday
</pre>

Topics that have been covered:
*  Principles of Algebra:
**    Distributive and Associative
**    Axoims of Algebra
*  Calculus:
**    Functions
**    Symmetry, Continuity, Rate of Change

h3. Notes:

check out the following notes:

h4. Algebra

http://mathforum.org/dr.math/faq/faq.property.glossary.html#operation

http://www.themathpage.com/alg/distributive\-rule.htm
http://math.about.com/od/algebra/a/distributive.htm

https://www.khanacademy.org/math/algebra

h4. Functions

http://www.tech.plym.ac.uk/maths/resources/PDFLaTeX/Functions.pdf
http://www.drdelmath.com/special_topics/Functions%20\-%20Examples%20\-%20Introduction.pdf

https://www.khanacademy.org/math/algebra/algebra\-functions

h3. Excersises

Please try out these excersises:

h4. Algebra

http://www.marlboro.edu/academics/study/mathematics/courses/f05emls/simplifying

h4. Functions

http://www.math.canterbury.ac.nz/php/resources/math100/functions/
http://derivative\-functions.cours\-de\-math.eu/exercises\-derivative\-basic.php


h3. Wishlist


Topics on the wishlist:

fnords:
* functions
* better understanding of binary numbers
** http://www.math.grin.edu/~rebelsky/Courses/152/97F/Readings/student\-binary
* fourier transformations

ln2v
* integrals (and differentiation) 
** http://math.feld.cvut.cz/mt/menue3dd.htm
* fourier transformations 
** http://www.wisdom.weizmann.ac.il/~vision/courses/2004_1/ex2/index.html
** http://mathstat.carleton.ca/~amingare/calculus/Exercises\-Fourier\-Series.pdf

karltk:
* quaternions
* + dependencies (linear algebra, complex numbers, coordinate systems, trigonometry)

lafa:
* lambda calculus
* graph/set theory

h3. excersises: 

on attendance: 
seeing as this is math lab I suggest you all find math excersises in your respectively chosen subjects
excersises need not be insanely hard, but they should be something you dont know how to do yet
hopefully if I don't know either we'll figure it out together

on progression:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_unsolved_problems_in_mathematics

h3. Plan

To satisfy the wishlist we must first satisfy the dependencies.

dependencies (makefile style)
<pre>
fourier_transforms: integration complex_numbers
integration: differentiation
differentiation: functions trigonometry
functions: algebra
binary numbers: algebra arithmetic number_theory
quaternions: linear_algebra integration complex_numbers trigonometry
trigonometry: geometry
graph_theory: set_theory
set_theory: number_theory
number_theory: proofs
</pre>

*Pictures!*
